# Acoustic Identification of Wood-Boring Insects with TinyML
As the climate warms, wood-boring insects proliferate and expand into new habitats, threatening forest ecosystems worldwide. This thesis tackles the challenge of infestation prevention through an innovative and efficient method of on-device acoustic monitoring using the principles of TinyML. Two key solutions are proposed to work around the constraints of memory, computation, and power consumption on embedded devices. The primary solution introduces **MAINet** (Multi-task Audio Insect Net) a multi-task convolutional neural network utilizing 1D convolutions and quantization mechanisms to process raw audio data, identify and categorize insect species. The secondary approach proposes a cascade architecture comprising preprocessing, detection, and classification stages. The detection stage serves as a filter, activating the computationally demanding stages only when necessary. The classification stage then leverages **TinyInsectNet**, an optimized convolutional neural network to classify insects based on spectrograms extracted from audio data. Both solutions aim to establish an efficient, feasible, and low-power system for pervasive deployment in forest ecosystems to monitor and mitigate the effects of insect infestation. The proposed solutions were ported on an extremely constrained embedded device. Experimental results on a carefully generated synthetic dataset and partly on a real collected dataset show the effectiveness of the proposed solutions.
